---
layout: post
location: Clermont-Fd Area, France
tldr: false
tags: [PHP, Geocoder]
title: Taking Geocoder To The Next Level
---

Almost two years ago, I was pushing the [first
commits](https://github.com/geocoder-php/Geocoder/commit/a5e2ebe5a13eab1da663681e0901072b8b121d49)
of a project that was anything but useful. I worked on this project to ease
[@themouette](https://twitter.com/themouette)'s life while he was playing with
the Google Maps API. I named this project [**Geocoder**](http://geocoder-php.org)
because I could not come up with a better name...

A few weeks later, the project got a lot of attention, and people started to
contribute. I got positive feedback, it was amazing! More than **630 commits**
have been made by **43 contributors** and, according to
[Packagist](https://packagist.org/packages/willdurand/geocoder), it has been
installed more than **40k times**. Awesome for such a library! As a reminder,
Geocoder is an abstraction layer for most of the existing third-party APIs, so
it is very specific, and that is why these numbers are even more awesome! It is
also my most starred library on [GitHub](https://github.com/willdurand)! And it
has even been featured by [Smashing Magazine on
Twitter](https://twitter.com/smashingmag/status/298115029478293505). Thanks
everyone, seriously!

I think it worked because Geocoder has been created to answer only **one need**,
and was small enough. The library was focused on (reverse) geocoding addresses,
nothing more, nothing fancy. That is how all libraries should be/have been
written.

Earlier this week, I decided to move forward. I am glad to introduce a **new
website** still available at [geocoder-php.org](http://geocoder-php.org). The
homepage presents **Geocoder** as well as its related projects. More projects
will join the family soon! Each project has its own documentation page, and a
cookbook is about to be written.

Also, a new GitHub organization called
[geocoder-php](https://github.com/geocoder-php) has been created to get together
all those who are interested in the project. It is important for such a project
to be maintained, that is why I asked people to join the new Geocoder family.
Our goal is to make Geocoder even better!

Last but not least, Geocoder now has its own shiny logo:

<img src="/images/posts/geocoder.png" style="width: 300px" />

We, the Geocoder team, will try to ship new features, releases and so on as
seriously as we are doing it right now. Please, let us know if you like Geocoder
or not, and if you missed any features. If you are using Geocoder, or if you
have used it in the past, I would be glad to hear back from you! Thank you.

A special thanks to [Antoine](https://github.com/toin0u),
[Markus](https://github.com/Baachi), and [all
contributors](https://github.com/geocoder-php/Geocoder/contributors).
