---
layout: post
location: Clermont-Fd, France
tldr: true
title: "Level Up"
tweet_id: 641261630123343873
---

What I have delayed as long as I could finally happened: deciding what to do,
professionally speaking. _Yup_, it is almost time to leave the University after
nine years studying tons of different topics. Fortunately, I had the
opportunity to work beside my studies, and Open Source gave me a few keys to
explore the real world by myself, so I knew what a "job" was. I was just too
scared, and making choices has often been complicated to me.

Three years ago, I thought working for a big (read famous) company in the Bay
was what I wanted the most. I even did some interviews that all went well, but
I never joined any company. I received various job proposals from all over the
world, and some of them were really interesting, but then again, I was not
excited enough. After three years doing research, I know that I am not a good
fit for that, even if I like its realm. Consequently, I decided not to pursue
this path.

Over the years, I started to care more and more about humans, rights, and
ethical behaviours. I also wanted to become a better version of myself,
byÂ [rethinking my life on the
Internets](/2015/01/16/rethinking-my-life-on-the-internets/), [reading
more](/books/), encouraging sharing and diversity with
[Clermont'ech](http://clermontech.org/), [creating projects that target a wider
audience than usual](/2015/01/31/je-n-ai-rien-a-cacher/), and even by [giving
lectures](http://edu.williamdurand.fr) and [talks](/talks/) all over the world!
I also grew up by [traveling a lot](/trips/) over the last three years. Among
all my trips, visiting my friend Igor who lives in Berlin has been a
revelation: I wanted to live and work in Berlin.

Earlier this year, I thought about working for a non-for-profit organization a
lot: I wanted to work abroad and for a good cause. Organizations such as
[EFF](https://www.eff.org/) and [RSF](https://en.rsf.org/) caught my attention.
I found positions in Berlin too. At that time, this seemed to be my best (and
also, only viable) plan. But then, [Julien](https://twitter.com/julienmaupetit)
came to me with a deal...

After several months thinking and discussing, I am really happy to announce
that Julien and I are now partners at [TailorDev](http://tailordev.fr/), to
develop modern tools to **ease scientific collaboration and promote Open Science
Data in research**.

This mission, including its strong underlying values, are the goals I have ever
dreamt &hearts; &hearts; &hearts; Being the CTO of such a company comes with
tons of new exciting challenges, and that is why I chose to partner rather than
working for an organization (not saying there are no challenges in
non-for-profit orgs here). Creating a startup has always been something I
wanted to try at least once, and that was the right moment I believe. As both
of us are happy to run a _remote first_ company, moving to Berlin will still
be possible. This also means that we will be able to work with people from
everywhere ;-)

Right now, we are working hard on
[**artich.io**](https://artich.io/?pk_campaign=luwd), a **collaborative
platform for scientists**! Researchers reading this blog post, if you are not
registered yet, you should! We are former scientists in bioinformatics and
software engineering, we know how things work in Academia. That is why we put
all our energy and skills on providing you with efficient tools!

## TL;DR

I am CTO at [TailorDev](http://tailordev.fr/). We build
[artich.io](https://artich.io/?pk_campaign=luwd), a platform for researchers.
