---
layout: post
location: Clermont-Fd Area, France
title: "Rethinking My Life (On The Internets)"
tweet_id: 556004638508724224
updates:
  - date: 2015-01-30
    content: >-
      recommend [Privacy Badger](https://www.eff.org/privacybadger) rather than
      [Ghostery which uses the data it collects from its users to help
      advertisers](http://www.businessinsider.com/evidon-sells-ghostery-data-to-advertisers-2013-6).
  - date: 2019-12-19
    content: >-
      I finally removed Disqus from the blog. Comments have been deleted but
      it is better like this. You can now send me an email or reply to the
      Twitter thread related to the article.
---

> _The Internets._ This wonderful land where everything is **free**, **public**,
> and... **persistent**. LOL

I often **carefully** chose what I put online: comments, documents, pictures,
etc. I wrote _often_ here because it took me a while to **educate myself**, to
**learn and understand** the implications of my behavior on Internet. I started
using Internet when I was 18*-ish*, because of my studies to be honest, since I
was not much interested in anything over IP at that time.

## Fighting Technology Enslavement

By the end of 2013, I **unsubscribed** myself from most of the mailing-lists I
had subscribed to in the past, and basically [turned off all
notifications](https://twitter.com/beberlei/status/411839552731361280),
including phone notifications (Twitter, Facebook, Emails, etc.). I moved from a
push approach to a **pull** approach: **I decide** when I want to consume
information, not the other way around, so that I can keep focused on what I am
doing. I don't need to be notified in real time. I don't want to. When we
analyze such a situation, one reads his Twitter notifications because his own
smartphone told him to do so. What a weird feeling isn't it? This is exactly
what **technology enslavement** is. I am part of this generation of (young)
people who can hang out in a pub, all focused on their smartphone for whatever
(bad) reason (most of the time, _Candy Crush..._), no one talking to each other,
not verbally I mean. I educated myself to avoid this, to **live without
smartphone** or laptop, and to truly start to **live life to the full**. Call me
nerd or whatever you want, I know too many muggles (read non-[IT|nerd|geek|tech]
people) who do that...

Things went really well! I became more efficient, I get things done, and I did
not miss any important event. What was the difference then? **Less stress**,
**more time** to dedicate to things that matter such as family, friends and
hobbies.

## Just. Delete. Me.

Last year, I started to reduce the amount of web services I was using or rather,
I thought I would use. [Justdelete.me](http://justdelete.me/) was great help! I
listed all services I was still using, and I deleted or disabled the other ones.

Now we are in 2015 and I began to accomplish something I wanted to do for a
while now: taking care of my personal data, for real. Too late? No, it is
**better late than never**.

## Taking Control of My Personal Data

First, I want to **control which companies can access my personal data**,
meaning I agree with their _terms and conditions_ (so things must be crystal
clear, which is not often the case). Second, I **don't want to be a product**
anymore. Third, I want to be **more respectful with people connected to me**, by
not giving their personal information to companies without asking them. Of
course they probably do that with my information already, but I am aware of this
and I can live with it.

As I don't use a lot of applications, switching to better services in term of
**reliability** and **privacy** implies three major pieces: emails, agendas and
contacts. All hosted on this good old friend: **Google**. I tried to move away
from Google, I swear it! Several times. But this month, I decided to take a new
year resolution to avoid giving up again.

### Emails, Contacts, Agendas

I started by buying my **own domain name for my emails**: **drnd.me**. It is
both short and quite easy to remember. Also, take my name, remove vowels,
concatenate `.me` and you are done! See the use of a domain name you control as
an abstraction layer, you can put any email hosting service behind it, your
contacts will still be able to reach you. I don't know why I did not do that
earlier actually... Then, I created new aliases and changed my email everywhere.
I reconfigured Gmail to send my new personal email as _Reply-To_ email's header,
so that it is being spread slowly but surely.

Then, based on some recommendations on Twitter, I chose
**[Fastmail](http://www.fastmail.com/?STKI=13808765)** (affiliate link) to take
care of my emails, and I am **happy to pay** for it! It is **blazing fast**, it
works and it perfectly fits my needs. Importing all my emails from Gmail took
half a day. At the time of writing this article, Gmail forwards all emails to
Fastmail, and I now exclusively use it. Fastmail [takes the privacy of their
users very seriously](https://www.fastmail.com/about/privacy.html), no data
mining, a clear privacy policy and it is an Australian company subject to
Australian law ([even if their servers are in the
US](http://blog.fastmail.com/2013/10/07/fastmails-servers-are-in-the-us-what-this-means-for-you/)).

Fastmail also provides an **Address Book** feature in _beta_. It works pretty
well so I moved all my contacts from Gmail to Fastmail. I also switched from
Google Calendar to Fastmail **Calendar**. Oh and they also provide a secure
platform for file sharing through WebDAV. _Tip top!_

### Instant Messaging

I often use GTalk, replacing it is not easy because of my contacts, but also
because most of the existing IM solutions are tied to corporations (Facebook,
Google, etc.). The main issue is that GTalk conversations are indexed by Google
in Gmail, meaning these conversations are not really private.

As suggested by [Josh](https://twitter.com/codeguy), [using Adium and firing up
OTR-encryption](https://joshlockhart.com/archive/goodbye-google) is a wise
solution. Because I can't force my friends to use a secure communication
channel, I am forced to consider IM conversations in the public domain. If one
of my contacts uses a client supporting
[OTR](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Off-the-Record_Messaging), we will have
private conversations though.

### Web Browsing

My main web browser is Chrome, and I am not going to change it. What I did
however has been to completely **remove any link to my Google account**. I lost
all my bookmarks in the fight, and I realized that this was not a problem. Who
uses bookmarks nowadays anyway? ;-) I also **disabled** all _speed improvement
features_ that use Google web services.

I configured Chrome to use [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com/), rather than
Google. It is going well so far, but I am not going to definitely avoid Google.
That is why I installed [Privacy Badger](https://www.eff.org/privacybadger), a
free **privacy-related browser extension**, enabling its users to easily detect
and control web bugs. As suggested by Josh again, I also installed [HTTPS
Everywhere](https://www.eff.org/https-everywhere) to ensure that my web browser
establishes **a secure connection** to websites that support it. This is more or
less the _client version_ of
[HSTS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HTTP_Strict_Transport_Security).

For fun, I also gave the [Tor
Browser](https://www.torproject.org/projects/torbrowser.html.en) a try, a bit
too slow but still quite good. I don't plan to use yet, but it may be useful if
things turn worse than expected here in France...

## What Else?

For years, I helped Google track you by using Google Analytics. I do
**apologize** for that. I switched to [Piwik](http://piwik.org/) last month
thanks to [Geoffrey](https://twitter.com/ubermuda), and I now recommend it over
Google Analytics.

I am now looking for alternatives to [Disqus](https://disqus.com/) for the same
reasons, but it is a bit complicated since this blog is basically static HTML,
hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/willdurand/willdurand.github.com). If
you have suggestions, comments (on Disqus, haha!) are open :)

Last but not least, I did not talk about
[PGP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pretty_Good_Privacy). I don't really use it
yet ([my public
key](https://pgp.mit.edu/pks/lookup?op=get&search=0xA509BCF1C1274F3B)), mainly
because I don't really know who really uses it: my parents don't, my friends
don't. That is why projects such as [Caliopen](https://www.caliopen.org/) are
more than interesting!
Since I own a PGP key, I use OSX's Mail.app mail client +
[GPGTools](https://gpgtools.org/) and [iPGMail](https://ipgmail.com/) on iPhone.

Talking about security, that is not what I targeted in the first place. I am
still growing up (we are all growing up when it is related to security in my
opinion), so things are going to change over time. It is probably far from
perfect, but it is better than doing nothing.
